---
layout: post
title: "Topic Presentations"
date: 2017-4-2
categories:
description: 
permalink: /topics/

---

In groups, you will be presenting about a topic related to data and privacy on the Internet. You have extensive freedom in how you choose to present about your topic, your research should drive the presentation. Focus on what is interesting to your group about your particular topic.


<!-- ### <span class="link">Topics</span>

1. History of Internet Privacy 
2. ISPs / VPN / Firewalls
3. Cookies, Encryption, Device Fingerprinting
4. The Dark Web / Tor Anonymity Network / p2p networks
5. Social Networking + Privacy (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat..)
6. Big Data - Apple, Google, Amazon, Spotify
7. Search Engines
8. Targeted Advertising / E-commerce
9. Location Services / Wireless Devices (Probe Request Frames, MAC Addresses…)
10. PRISM



<hr> -->

<br>

### <span class="link">Presentation</span>

Prepare a 15 minute presentation of your topic. You should have slides to accompany your talk, but please ***do not fill these with text!*** Your slides should show graphics, perhaps very short videos, or any other visual references to support what you are discussing. Practice your presentation, and **do not read from your slides**!!

We will have time for discussion and questions following your presentation. 

*Presentation is worth 40 pts*

<br>

### <span class="link">Writeup and References</span>

Write a ~500 words summary of your research on this topic. You can assume some level of technical knowledge from your audience, but you should discuss and present your topic in a way that is comprehensive and approachable. I encourage you to focus on both the social *and* technical aspects of your topic. You may include supporting graphics or photos if it strengthens your discussion. 

You must include at least 7 credible sources. You can use articles and things found on the internet, but use your discression to choose legitimate references. If you have questions about whether a source is appropriate, check with me. 

Submit your writeup and references as one document - this can be turned in either as a google doc or pdf.

*Writeup and References is worth 40 points*

<br>

See the [Schedule](/rtw-s17/schedule) for due dates by group. Writeups and References are due the same day as your presentation.

<hr>

### <span class="link">Groups</span>


Ethan A. <br>
Kaylin

Marla<br>
Andy

Keren<br>
Hannah

Jonny<br>
Chris

Amanda<br>
Susie

Cyron<br>
Carolyn

Austin<br>
Bri<br>
Ethan C.