---
layout: post
title: "Hello JavaScript"
date: 2017-1-15
categories:
description: 
permalink: /js101/

---

[Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript) is a high-level, dynamic, untyped, and interpreted programming language. It is a scripting language most often used for client-side web development. Alongside HTML and CSS, JavaScript is one of the three core technologies of the World Wide Web; the majority of websites employ it, and all modern Web browsers support it without the need for plug-ins. JavaScript allows web pages to be more dynamic and interactive.  

<br>

### <span class="underlined">Where and How to add Javascript to web pages</span>

Write JavaScript using the `<script>` tag. Typically this happens in the `<head>` of an HTML document as follows:

	<html>
		<head>
			<script type="text/javascript"> 
				alert("Hi There!"); 
			</script>
		</head>
		<body>
			Nothing here..
		</body>
	</html>


JavaScript can also be written in a separate file and linked to. In this case use the `<script>` tag and the `src` attribute like so:

	<html>
		<head>
			<script type="text/javascript" src="myscript.js"></script>
		</head>
		<body>
			Nothing here..
		</body>
	</html>
		
or both!

	<html>
		<head>
			<script type="text/javascript" SRC="myscript.js"></script>
			
			<script type="text/javascript"> 
				alert("Hi There!"); 
			</script>
		</head>
		<body>
			Nothing here..
		</body>
	</html>


👉 One important thing to keep in mind when including a `<script>` tag in the head of the html is that the javascript code *may execute before the rest of the page loads*. There are built-in javascript event listeners to solve this issue which we will talk about in the upcoming weeks, a solution would be to include your script tag at the bottom of the `<body>` instead of in the `<head>`. 


<br>

### <span class="underlined">Variables</span>

Defined by `var`

	var avariable; // Declares a variable called avariable
	avarable = 15; // Assigns 15 to that variable

<br>

In JavaScript, variables are not generally ***typed***... So, you can do this:

	var anothervariable = "My Name Is Arielle";
	alert(anothervariable);
	anothervariable = 15;
	alert(anothervariable);
		
<br>

### <span class="underlined">Comments</span>

	// single line comment
	/* 	
		multiline 
		comment 
	*/

<br>

### <span class="underlined">Comparison, Conditionals and Loops</span>

Much the same as other languages, so just a few examples here:

	var what = true;
	var now = 5;

	if (what == now) {
		// Then do this
	}
	else if (1 != 1) {
		// Or this
	}
	else {
		// Those weren't true..  Let's loop
		
		for (var i = 0; i < now; i++) {
			alert("Counting: " + i);
		}
	}

<br>

### <span class="underlined">Built-in Javascript Functions</span>

We already looked at `alert` and you can see what that does.. 

There are many more built in functions, here they are broken down by object: [W3Schools: JavaScript Reference](http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/default.asp).  ***Make this reference your best friend!!!***

<br>

### <span class="underlined">Writing your own functions</span>

	function dosomething(somedata) {
		var whattosay = "Hi there " + somedata + " , nice to meet you!";
		alert(whattosay);
	}

In this example, we use the + symbol for *string concatenation.*	

You would call this function in your javascript like so:

	dosomething("arielle");

or, you could include the following line in html:

	<input type="button" name="name" value="blah" 
		onClick="dosomething(this.value);" />

<br>

We can also reference the divs, buttons, input fields and other html elements as if they were JavaScript objects themselves with functions (methods) and properties. This is referred to as the **[DOM (Document Object Model)](http://www.w3schools.com/js/js_htmldom.asp)**. You use the "." dot syntax. 

If you use the "id" attribute you have a short-cut available:

	<script type="text/javascript">
		function changeIt(){
			var thediv = document.getElementById('mydiv');
			thediv.innerHTML = "something else";
		}
	</script>

Then, in the `<body>` of your html you would have:

	<div id="mydiv">Something</div>

	<input type="button" name="changeit" value="Change It" 
		onClick="changeIt();" />
